391 Project Report

Introduction

Our photo sharing web application allows users to upload photos, share them with friends and family and also view pictures uploaded by friends and family. Users can create groups  of users and share photos only to that group and also share to all users. Our system is hosted on UofA servers at consort.cs.ualberta.ca , and the databases are hosted on UofA Oracle servers. The system was built using a combination of HTML, PHP, CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript. 



 

General Files

    	index.php: Opens login/signup.php webpage if their designated links are clicked. Contains the webapp logo and signup and login buttons. This is the first file to be called when starting the cliet at consort.cs.ualberta.ca/~<ccid>. This page has two buttons that redirect the user to login.php, or signup.php. Checks if there is an active session meaning there is a user still logged in. If this is the case the user is redirected immidiadtly to profile.php. This file displays the user.

header.php: The header on the pages at the top that allow the user to redirect to other modules. There are links to searching, groups, displaying and uploading pictures. This file is required in many other php files.

profile.php: Called after a user logs in or signs up. Displays some information about the user. Also is called when a user clicks the home button at the top of the page displayed by the header.php

function.php: Functions necessary for string sanitizing, and creating and destroying sessions.






Database Connection Files:
	
db.php: File that holds classes and methods for connecting to the database. From this file we can make a connection, and execute commands. The executecommand function will take an sql query after a connection is made and queries the database, and returns the array of results.

	setup.php: This file will generate a database object. Calls db.php to create that object and create a connection.
   	setup.sql: SQL commands to generate tables required for this database.

config.php:

Style sheets and Images (/include directory):

	signin.css: css file for formatting
            	theme.css: css file for formatting 
bgimage.jpg: Background picture for website
logo.png: Photoshare logo in blue
logored.png: Photoshare logo in red
	






Usermanagement Module (/usermanagement directory):

This module allows your clients to register an account by providing required information, including a unique user name, password, first name, last name, address, email, and phone number, and to log in as a registered user to perform various tasks.

    	usermanagement: 
The directory that holds all the files that are related to signing up, logging in and logging out to the website.

        	login.php: 
This file is called from index., displays the login form. Does some error checking. Making sure the fields have values, and are a certain length. This file contains mostly html and bootstrap for displaying forms and logos, and javascript for checking the form. Making sure the form contains values are correct. 

        	loginAuth.php: 
This file is called from login.php after the user clicks the login button in the login.php file. Checks if the username and password are in the database. If the user and password are valid, profile.php is called to display the users profile. If the user does not exist the login.php page is called again and an alert is displayed with an error message. A session is created after a successful login.
Select user_name from users where username=’$username’ AND passoword=’$password’

        	signup.php: 
This file is called from index.php. Allows the user to register to the application. Does some error checking. Makes sure all the values are entered, passwords match, valid phone number and a valid email. Uses html, bootstrap and javascript. 

        	signupAuth.php: 
This file is called from signup.php. Checks if the username is taken. If  the username is not taken and the values entered are valid the a row is created in the users table and in the persons table in the database. A session is created, the user is logged in.

        	logout.php: 
This file is called if the user clicks logout. Destroys the session, and logs the user out. index.php is then called to allow a new user to be logged or register.









Data Analysis Module (/admin directory):

   	 admin.php:
	


Searching Module (/search directory):






Uploading Module( /upload directory):
uploadForm.php








Security Module:
One cannot login into the system without providing a valid user name and password.







Display Module:


   
    
   
    

